The next thing I'd like to talk about
are the various parts of the webpage.
Now these are probably HTML elements that
you're really very familiar with but
you may not necessarily know the right
context in which to use each of get these
elements, and so, therefore,
you don't use them at all.
So what I'd like to do now is to go
through to elements like article, and
section, and, div and headings, and
proper order of headings, and all of that.
Let's talk about that now and
then we'll apply that in some code points.
All right, so the content sectioning
elements, if you take a look at MDN,
it will show you these types of elements
that are here, and some of these may
be used on a regular basis, some of
these you may need to be reminded of.
So, let me just point out so the very
first one there has to do with address,
another one of my favorite elements.
Address of course, you might think
a postal address on a website.
That may be part of it, but it's basically
any way that you might contact somebody,
so it could include social media,
email, phone,
it may even include geographic
coordinates if that's what's relevant.
So that is the address element, it can
be associated with an article in which
case it's the author's
contact information, or
if it's associated in the footer
at the very bottom of the webpage,
It is the website's contact information,
so you can think about that as well.
I'm gonna talk more about article,
and section, and div momentarily,
more about main momentarily.
Header and footer you're probably
familiar with of course the head,
the top of the document,
footer for the bottom.
Remember that you can have those for
the full web page, you probably
are already doing that, the header for
the full web page, the footer for
the full web page, but you can also have
headers or footers for articles as well.
Okay, so that's just a few
little bit of some of those.
Remember that div doesn't mean anything
at all, div means nothing some people
say well that means it's a division,
it is short for division but
it doesn't mean anything,
it's not a sectioning element, it doesn't,
it's not responsible for anything in terms
of communicating meaning on the webpage,
its whole purpose is to hold classes and
IDs.
That's it or groups other
elements together on a page so
we can do things like layouts and
other types of tricks.
Very useful for CSS styling and JavaScript
programming as you already know, and
span would be the inline equivalent.
So div by default is
a block-level element.
Span is an inline element.
That is the difference between those two.
So div should be your
element of last resort.
In other words, as you think about web
pages and communicating meaning of
on web pages, you should try to use
any other element until you get to,
I just need to group these things
together to make my Flexbox work,
that is the time to use a div.
So let's talk about when you might use
article section or div specifically.
And I always asks people,
is it related, or is it syndicated?
If it's related content, then we're
gonna talk about it as a section.
That's a section of the webpage,
in other words,
this information is kind of related,
it's kind of grouped together,
maybe it doesn't stand alone,
but it is indeed related.
An article is syndicated.
I can take that piece of information,
I can put it anywhere and
you would get meaning out of it,
so it stands alone.
Things like blog posts would
be an example of that.
Recipes would be an example of that.
Many kinds of news articles
would be an example of that.
You probably want those things
associated with their branding, but
they could be understood
by themselves in isolation.
And then div is that last thing,
there's no story, nothing's related,
you just need a box to group elements that
would be the one of your last resort.
So that's it.
Think about related Syndicated.
Main, however,
is not the same as all of those elements.
So main has to do with a marker
on the page, as it says here,
the main content area consists of
content that's directly related to or
expands upon central topic of the
document, or the central functionality of
the application, there's one per page,
you can't have multiple mains,
only one per page, and
this would be the focus of your page.
So your application and
your writing in javaScript would
be inside of the main area.
Maybe you have additional information that
goes around it, the header, the footer,
maybe you have some advertising that
goes on a sidebar or something, but
the main focus of the page is
what goes in the main element,
more on main because it's a really
interesting kind of thing.
So whatever is inside
of that main element,
should be unique to this
particular document.
In other words, it's not stuff we're
gonna repeat over and over again.
You're gonna have the same
navbar on every page,
you're gonna have the same logo
on every page, same social media
contact information, that is not
appropriate to the main element.
Main is strictly informative, so it's not
a sectioning element, it is useful for
screen readers and such to know that
this is the main focus of the page.
So you might have a main in
addition to articles or sections,
that would be what you would be doing.
It's a landmark, is better to use main
than the role equals pain for javaScript,
you can add an ID attribute to it and then
it's the target of a skip navigation link.
So if you know that technique where in the
upper corner usually upper left corner of
the page, you might hide a link that says
skip navigation or skip to main content.
You can have them skip right to
the main element that is the portion of
the page makes total sense.
And then this last point is what
is really interesting to me.
So browser read mode functionality looks
for the presence of the main element,
as well as the heading and
content sectioning elements when
converting content into Reader View.
So if you've made use of Firefox as Reader
View, which is available by default,
Chrome has it with a flag, it will strip
out just like if you're on a news site,
for example, it would just show you the
news article, strips out all the branding,
strips out all the advertising and
so forth.
Sometimes it will get you around password
protection, some of those new sites where
they show you you can only see
the first five sentences and
then you're blocked out.
Sometimes that will get you past that so
you can read the whole article.
So that is another use for main.
Any questions on that?
Okay, so let's do some more code then.
>> Was a question.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know if you saw it?
>> I did not.
>> Can we use the address tag for
street address too?
>> Yes.
>> Or be strictly used for
what context is like sites and links?
>> Yes, you can use it for
your postal address as well.
For the address element,
that would be just fine,
which is might be what you expect.
>> Why is there even a div and
a span when HTML is not meant for styling,
it's only meant for semantics but
these things have no meaning at all?
>> Right, because sometimes you need
to group your HTML elements together in
order to complete your styling.
So in other words we're not trying to
communicate anything with div or span but
for example, in that code pen that I
just showed you with the ice cream,
I had a description list and
an image and I wanted them side by side,
the only way to do that is to have
a parent for both of those elements,
we've marked it up semantically,
it's definitely a description list.
It's definitely an image,
they will stack vertically by default.
I need a parent around those so that I can
assign that parent like display flex or
display grid, and
then the additional properties that I need
to put those two things side by side.
So div in that case is not styling
anything for me, it's simply gonna
hold a class where I can assign those
particular properties to that div.